By the end of this lesson,
we'll have built a GAN to generate new images of handwritten digits.
But first, I want to take a step back and talk
about how we might think about solving a task like this.
We know that we can create a classifier by training a lot of MNIST images.
As the classifier trains,
if it sees an image of a two and it outputs the label eight,
it will identify this as a mistake and change what it's doing,
training until it becomes more accurate.
In this process, the classifier will form some representation of the different digits.
It learns what features distinguish the different kinds of images.
But, you cannot ask a network like this to
draw you a new picture of an eight. It doesn't know how.
To generate new data,
you want something that can learn the underlying structure of the training data,
like what colors and shapes make up an image of an eight,
and use that information to create something entirely new.
Adversarial training gives us a way to do this.
The idea is that you have two neural networks,
a generator, and discriminator.
The discriminator is a simple classifier that tries to
classify images as either real from the training set,
or fake generated images.
The generator is acting as an adversary to the discriminator.
It aims to trick the discriminator,
giving it generated images that look as if they've come from the training set.
If the generator produces an image that the discriminator thinks is fake,
then it will change its behavior and try again.
The generator will train until it can fool the discriminator into
thinking that its generated data comes from the real training set.
So, its goal is to force the discriminator to have as high an error rate as possible.
But, at the same time, the discriminator is also training.
It's alternating between looking at examples of real and fake images,
and getting better at recognizing differences between them.
Its goal is to have as low an error rate as possible.
So, our task will be to define generator and discriminator networks with opposing goals.
We'll formalize this idea by defining
opposing generator and discriminator loss functions.
By the end of training,
the discriminator should not be able to tell the difference between real and fake images,
and we'll be able to use our trained generator
to create new images of handwritten digits.